I have a couple of recommendations for
you, for your code editor I suggest
Visual Studio code I think we
over went over that a little bit.
If you're learning to code it's just
a really beginner friendly editor.
Even if you don't intend on using it super
long term, I'm gonna suggest you use
it for this course because I will
be doing everything in VS Code, and
I will be showing you how to use VS Code.
And then later you can make
a decision to try something else.
I'll give you some alternatives here like
Sublime WebStorm, Nova, Vim and Emacs.
I'm gonna suggest if you don't
already know how to use Vim and Emacs.
Don't, do it.
They're super hard.
And you don't want to be
learning two things at once.
I want you to focus on learning to code,
and
then later you can go learn something
really difficult like them.
And there's courses on front of
masters that will teach us things like
them as well.
For the browser, I suggest that you use
either Firefox or Google Chrome actually,
I have Firefox up here at the moment but
both of these work really really well.
Both of the developer tools are really
great I would say that Google Chrome is
probably more used in the industry
today so if you're not comfortable.
With either one of them it's probably
a good one to get started with but,
honestly they're both awesome and you
should go back and forth between the two.
Because users of your website will
be using both Chrome and Firefox and
Safari and edge and all those various.
Different browsers, so it's good for
you to get familiar and
see your website working across
all the different web browsers.
Well do a little bit in code
pen throughout this course,
It's just like a little editor
that exists in the browser.
It's good for like examples.
So definitely check that out.
And then as far as like resources,
you can go get answers for
questions that you have.
I'm gonna suggest MDN is
probably the best place for
like, how does these this bit of
JavaScript or how does this HTML tag work?
It's kind of like the industry standard.
CSS tricks is a great
resource particularly for
front end development
kind of technologies.
Everything on there is really high
quality, it's vetted it's accurate.
So I suggest that for video content
if you wanna learn future things,
I really can't say enough good
things about front of masters.
And then if you're working with like
a library or framework, you probably just
wanna head directly to GitHub and
get the documentation from the source.
So, let's kind of give you a lay of the
land of all the various different things
that we're gonna talk about.
So first of all, this is the intro to
web dev there is a kind of beginner
path here on front of masters.com.
So once you're done with my course,
there's great courses from Jen on CSS and
Kyle Simpson on JavaScript
as well as Bianca.
By the time that you watch this,
these might be different courses.
They're always shuffling in the new
ones and putting great stuff on here.
But this is a great kind of first path
that one can take, like a beginning
level mastery of JavaScript and
all the front end technologies.
So definitely suggest following that
learning path after you're done with
this one.
Today, you're gonna learn
three different languages.
We're gonna be learning HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript.
So let's start with what is HTML.
HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language.
You can think of it like
the content on a page.
So like right now you're looking at my
website that I made for you, right?
You can think of it as like
all of the text on here right.
So it's none of the style it's not
really how its laid out or anything
like that it's not the color, it's not
the font size it's not the margins and
paddings that exist everywhere.
It's just the text right
it's the structure,
it's all of the content that
you're gonna read from a website.
Think of like if we were
building a car together,
you could think of the HTML as the raw
materials that go into the car.
It could be the doors, the frame,
the structure, the steering wheel, like.
You can just like imagine
like a neat pile, right?
You have to like arrange all of those
things into a car for them to be work.
But you still need all the components,
right?
It's the components of the car and
none of the color or the relationships or
the engine or any of that kind of stuff,
it's just the pieces of it.
So in order to have that style and have
that ability to move the car you're still
gonna need the CSS and the JavaScript.
You're gonna need the kind of
the blueprints of how it's put together
as well as the engine, but
the content is part of the HTML there.
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets.
You can think of it as
the style of a website.
It's how the website looks and
feels and those kind of things.
So the fact that this header is purple,
or that this background has dots in it,
or that this has like a nice little
purple underline underneath it.
All of those little finishing
touches is all the style right?
It's the cascading style
sheets that's the CSS right?
So they separate these different things so
that you can make one type of header,
right?
So you can see how all these,
what is CSS, what is JavaScript.
They all have this nice underline
underneath them, right?
So I can just structure all of my content
however I want, and then I make one rule.
And then the same rule applies
to every single one of these.
It separates my styling from my content,
which makes my styling reusable.
And we'll get into that once
we're in the CSS section.
But I wanted to explain to you
why they separate these things,
and why they don't just
shove everything together.
There's not just one language you
have to learn today, there's three.
So again, continuing our car analogy,
the CSS would be like where the doors go,
what color the car is what color the
interior is, is it left or right drive?
Like where do we put the steering wheel?
Those kinds of things.
It's how the car looks and feels.
But even still with just HTML and
CSS, our car doesn't go yet right?
We still need something
that makes the car go,
we still need the sort of
interactivity with the car.
You can think of that as the JavaScript,
you can have a total and
complete valid website with just HTML and
CSS.
You really could just stop there.
And the first thing that came to my head,
you can go to example.com,
which literally is just an example domain.
There's nothing on this page other than
just like, this is an example domain,
there's no JavaScript on this page, right?
There's also nothing to
interact with right?
This website doesn't really do very much.
But you can have valid websites
with just HTML and CSS.
It would be useful for
something like a blog or
just something with just inert content
that doesn't do anything, it's just you're
gonna go you're gonna read a bunch
of stuff and then you're done.
That's a totally valid thing.
Like you could have a car
without an engine, right?
You would just roll it places I suppose,
right?
But that is technically possible.
So, we don't wanna do that, right?
We wanna have interactive websites.
We wanna build things that you can press
a button and something happens, or
you wanna have something like Netflix
where you can press something.
You can go to a different page.
You can.
Watch videos and things like that, for
that kind of interactivity
you're gonna need JavaScript.
So what is JavaScript it's
a programming language, right?
HTML and CSS are actually not technically
programming languages in the sense that
they don't do anything you just
say like here's the content.
You can do like a Word DOC, right?
A Word DOC doesn't necessarily
do anything unto itself, right?
But has a bunch of text.
Has a bunch of bolding and
font choices and colors.
You're gonna need something that's
gonna actually do something to that.
So JavaScript is the programming
language that we're going to use today.
There are many programming
languages like C++, Python, Go,
all those kinds of languages.
But we're choosing JavaScript specifically
for the purpose that your browsers,
Firefox and Chrome and
Safari Knows how to run JavaScript.
It's the only language that
can run inside of a browser.
So those other languages are great, but
they're just not a good fit
what we're trying to do today.
But what I will tell you is that you're
going to learn a bunch of skills today
that if you decide later that
I really want to write Python,
What you learned in JavaScript will
make learning Python very easy.
It's kind of like if you learn Spanish, it
makes learning Italian very easy because
they share a lot of the same concepts.
This is another good
analogy that I thought of.
If you have HTML and CSS,
it's like a non-interactive website.
It is a non-interactive website
like pages in a book, right?
You can open a book, you can get
a lot of knowledge out of a book.
But, you can't like touch the book, right?
There's no interactivity to a book
other than just turning the pages and
reading the content in the book.
If you want to have some
sort of interactivity,
you need to have something
like a tablet computer, right?
Which makes it interactive
that you can touch things,
things can move across the page.
You can have animations and
all that kind of stuff.
That sort of going from a book to
an interactive tablet experience.
You can think of like,
that's the sort of interactivity
that JavaScript can add to a page.
So that's a relatively simplistic take.
They're meant to be metaphors
that hopefully kind of bridge
understanding of what JavaScript,
CSS and HTML are for.
There's lots of nuance here that I'm
failing to cover with these analogies, but
hopefully it helps you kind of
understand where we're going.
So that's the order that we're gonna learn
things in today, we're gonna learn HTML,
then we're gonna learn CSS and
then we're gonna learn JavaScript.
And we're gonna build this pyramid of
knowledge that hopefully you can start
building websites with.